
aiR for Review security permissions
This page contains information on the security permissions required for interacting with aiR for Review. For more information on setting permissions, see Workspace security.
Note: aiR for Review is currently in limited release. For information about the general release, contact your account representative.
See these related pages:

aiR for Review

Running aiR for Review

Monitoring aiR for Review jobs

aiR for Review results


Running the aiR for Review mass action
To run the aiR for Review mass action, you need the following permissions:





Object Security
Other Settings






aiR for Review Profile - View, Edit, Add




Mass Operations - aiR for Review





You must also belong to at least one user group other than the Workspace Admin Group.
Viewing the aiR for Review Jobs tab
There are two versions of the aiR for Review Jobs tab: one at the instance level, and one at the workspace level. The instance-level tab shows all jobs across all workspaces, and it includes several extra columns to identify the workspace, matter, and client connected to each job.
The following permissions allow users to see the job list and click on each job to view Prompt Criteria details. Users with access to this tab can also cancel in-progress jobs.
Instance-level permissions
To view the instance-level aiR for Review Jobs tab, you need the following permissions:





Object Security
Tab Visibility 






Admin Repository - View
aiR for Review Prompt Criteria - View




aiR for Review Jobs





Assign these permissions under the Instance Details tab.
Viewing Prompt Criteria at the instance level
To view Prompt Criteria details for a job, you also need some permissions within that job's workspace:

You must belong to more than just the Workspace Admin Group within the workspace.
You must have aiR for Review Prompt Criteria - View rights within that job's workspace.

If you do not have these, you will be able to see jobs from that workspace, but you will not be able click on those jobs to view their Prompt Criteria.
You can also use item-level permissions to restrict access to a specific job's aiR for Review Prompt Criteria. For more information, see Levels of Security in Relativity.
Workspace-level permissions
To view the workspace-level aiR for Review Jobs tab, you need the following permissions:





Object Security
Tab Visibility 






aiR for Review Prompt Criteria - View




aiR for Review Jobs





Assign these permissions under the Workspace Details tab within the chosen workspace.
You can also use item-level permissions to restrict access to a specific job's aiR for Review Prompt Criteria. For more information, see Levels of Security in Relativity.
Clearing and restoring job results
To clear or restore job results using the aiR for Review Jobs tab, you need the following permissions:





Object Security
Tab Visibility 






Document - View, Edit
aiR Relevance Analysis - View, Edit
aiR Issue Analysis - View, Edit
aiR Key Analysis - View, Edit




aiR for Review Jobs





If you have Edit permissions for only one of the analysis types, you will only be able to clear or restore results of that type.
For more information on clearing and restoring results, see Managing jobs and document linking.
Viewing highlights in the Viewer
To  see aiR for Review results highlighted in the Viewer, you need the following permissions:




Object Security






aiR Relevance Analysis - View
aiR Issue Analysis - View
aiR Key Analysis - View





If you only have access to some of these, you will only see highlighting for those analysis types.
 
