
Security permissions
This page contains information on the security permissions required for creating and interacting with an Active Learning project. For more information on setting permissions, see Workspace security.
Creating an Active Learning project
To create an Active Learning project, you need the following permissions: 





Object Security
Tab Visibility 






Active Learning Project - View, Edit, Add
Active Learning Review - View, Edit, Add,
Active Learning Reviewer - View, Edit, Add
Analytics Categorization Result - View, Add
Analytics Categorization Set - View, Edit, Add
Analytics Categorization Set Build History - View
Analytics Index - View, Edit
Field - View, Edit, Add
Object Rule - View, Add
View - View, Add, Edit Security
Workspace - Edit Security




Active Learning Projects





Viewing and editing an Active Learning project
To view and edit an Active Learning project, you need the following permissions: 
Note: It's not possible to have "view-only" Active Learning permissions. If you have permission to view but not edit an Active Learning project, you aren't able to view the project. 





Object Security
Tab Visibility 






Active Learning Project - View, Edit
Active Learning Review - View, Edit, Add
Active Learning Reviewer - View, Edit
Analytics Categorization Set - View, Edit
Analytics Categorization Set Build History - View
Analytics Index - View




Active Learning Projects





Deleting an Active Learning project
In order to delete an Active Learning project, you need either workspace admin or system admin permissions. This will allow you to delete the view created by the project.
Managing trained models
To export a trained model from an Active Learning project, you need the following permissions:





Object Security
Tab Visibility 






Active Learning Project - View, Edit
Trained Model - View, Add




Active Learning Projects

Trained Models (only needed to view error details)






To share a trained model across workspaces, you need the following permissions for both the origin and the destination workspace:






Object Security
Tab Visibility 
Mass Operation






Trained Model - View, Edit, Add




Trained Models





Share Trained Models






Note: If you are sharing a model with a category assigned to it, and that category does not yet exist in the target workspace, you need Choice – Add permissions in the target workspace for that category to be created.
To delete a trained model, you need the following permissions:






Object Security
Tab Visibility 
Mass Operation






Trained Model - View, Edit, Delete




Trained Models





Delete






Reviewer permissions
The reviewer group accessing the Active Learning project must have the following permissions: 






Object Security
Tab Visibility 
Other Settings






Active Learning Reviewer - View
Document - View, Edit 




Documents




Browsers - None OR Folders and/or Field Tree and/or Clusters





Note: The users in this group are not automatically added to the Active Learning project. You must grant each individual access to the Review queue. 
Other considerations for setting group permissions:

If the Browsers permission is set only to Advanced & Saved Searches, reviewers can't access the view for the review queues. 
The review group must have access to all documents in the Active Learning project.  If documents are not accessible (for example, documents stored in a secured folder) they are not served to reviewers in the queue.
You can add or remove users from the group at any time.
If you add a new reviewer to a group that is already tied to an Active Learning project, it may take some time for the change to synchronize with the project. If you still cannot grant the reviewer access after 24 hours, contact Product Support.

Resolving reviewer permissions warnings
If the reviewer group accessing an Active Learning project does not have the required permissions to review the documents in that project, a warning will appear in the notifications area  in the top-right corner of the Active Learning Project Home tab. To view the warning, click the notification icon.
The permissions warnings can be resolved as follows:





Permissions Warning Message
Solution





User Group "Group Name" does not have Reviewer Object view permission.


Grant the user group View permissions on the Active Learning Reviewer Object. See Assigning object-level permissions.



User Group "Group Name" does not have Document Object edit permission.
Grant the user group Edit permissions on the Document Object. See Assigning object-level permissions.


User Group "Group Name" may not have Document item level security or other security permissions.

Grant the user group Edit permissions to any documents within the Active Learning project which are individually secured or held in private folders.
To adjust access to individual documents or folders, see Relativity object security.




 
 
