
Batch Set Cleanup
Note: Batch Set Cleanup replaces the Remove documents from batch sets application, which is no longer supported in RelativityOne.
Batch Set Cleanup removes all documents within a saved search of each batch set you specify.
Migrating from Remove documents from batch sets
Any pre-existing jobs in the Remove documents from batch sets application should be replicated and completed in Batch Set Cleanup before removing the old application. You can do this by following the Running Batch Set Cleanup instructions below, but choosing the same name, saved search, and batch set as the Remove documents from batch sets job you'd like to complete. For more information, visit Running Batch Set Cleanup.
Before you begin
Batch Set Cleanup removes all documents within a saved search of any batch set you identify while running the application. Review the following information before proceeding:
Components
This solution consists of the following components:

Console event handler
Manager agent
Worker agent
Custom job RDO
Custom page
Relativity application

Considerations

When using a batch set with auto-batch  enabled, ensure batching completes before using the batch set with this solution.
Purging a batch set or the records from a job, while it’s in progress, results in an error.
Selecting a saved search that contains no documents results in a job with an error status.

Deploying and configuring the solution
To deploy and configure Batch Set Cleanup in your workspace, you must perform the following step:

Install the Review application to your workspace.

Install the Review application to your workspace
To install the application to your workspace, perform the following steps:

Navigate to the Application Library tab.
Click on the Review application.

In the Workspaces Installed section, click Select to install the application to one or more workspaces.


Select the workspace(s) where you want to install the application, and then click the Move selected left to right icon.


Click Apply.The application is installed to the selected workspace(s). A list of workspace(s) where the application has been installed displays in the Workspaces Installed section.


Running Batch Set Cleanup
To run the application in your workspace, perform the following steps:
Create a new job

Navigate to the Batch Set Cleanup tab in your workspace.
Click New Batch Set Cleanup.
Enter a Name and optionally, enter a Priority.
Click Save.

Configure the job

Select the job you just created from the list.
Click Configure Job on the Manage Job console.
Click on the Saved Search drop-down menu and select the search that contains the documents you want to remove.
Click on the Batch Sets drop-down menu and select  the batch sets you want those documents removed from.
Click Save.
Click Submit Job in the Manage Job console.

3.1.1	Canceling a job 
The Cancel Job button enables on the Manage Job console whenever the current job is in progress.  When you click Cancel Job, the agent finishes its current batch of up to 25,000 documents before fully canceling the job.
3.1.2	Purging a job 
The Purge Job button enables on the Manage Job console whenever a job’s status is Ready, Completed, or Error.  When you purge a job, the records from the tables associated with the job delete.
Viewing the results
The job is finished when the Status field displays Complete. 
The results display in the Message field of the job custom object you created.  Results don't display until the job status is marked Ready.  Click into a specific job and Refresh the page to update the results.
The following information is displayed in the results window:


