













 Production
With the Production application  you can prepare relevant and non-privileged documents to turn over to opposing counsel after review. Relativity's production application makes it easy to customize your productions from placeholders to custom branding. 
For more information about working with productions, see the following pages:

Production queue

Branding queue

Importing a production file

Exporting a production set

Production sets

Production console

Production errors 

Re-productions

Production data source 

Placeholders


For information about troubleshooting the production application through the Service Host Manager, see Service Host Manager in the system guides section.
Read a production sets scenario


Using production 
You're a system admin, and you've just completed a document review project for a client, a healthcare provider, that has been involved in litigation related to inadequate protection of private patient information. After coding all the documents for issues and responsiveness and redacting any sensitive patient information that occurred in those documents, it's time to produce these documents and submit them to the presiding judge.
To do this, you create a new production that defines these documents. You name it Patient Privacy Production and you select the Patient Privacy markup set you created and had your reviewers apply to the sensitive patient information they encountered in the documents they reviewed. For the Production numbering field, you select Page level numbering and enter a prefix of "PPP." Just to reduce the number of characters on each document, you change the number of digits for document numbering field from 7 to 5. You then specify the begin and end Bates number fields, leave the other fields at their defaults and save the new production set.
(click on image to expand)


You then use the options on the production console of the saved production set to run the production. Once the production finishes running, you can export it and submit it to the presiding judge.



Upgrading production
Production application upgrades occur concurrently with Relativity product updates. You can find information about production updates in the Relativity release notes and What's new.
To upgrade the application, use one of the following methods:

Upgrade to the latest Relativity product update - Upgrading to the latest Relativity update automatically upgrades production to the latest version.
Upgrade production only - Download the newly released RAP file from the Relativity Community and import it into the Application Library.

Basic production workflow
In order to produce documents, ensure you use the following workflow to create the necessary production components. Use the links in the image below for more information on each part of the production workflow. 



Production information
The production information object stores important information about your production. Staging a production populates this object in your workspace. As an example, the production information object is useful when you want to look at the  amount of documents with redactions, the control number of the documents in your production, which documents were produced with a placeholder, and which documents were produced as a native. The production information object also stores the automatically created Bates numbers associated with the production. Because the Bates numbers automatically populate on production documents, the Bates numbers fields automatically clear when you delete productions. 
To quickly view the information stored on this object, click View Documents in the production console. The View Documents pop-up displays information on both documents and individual pages. You can also view information about the documents produced by looking at the saved search that is automatically created when the production job finishes. 
Once you run a production, you can view the aforementioned information on the documents list for each produced document by adding the fields to a view and then creating a tab from that view. See Views and Tabs for more information.
Production information tab
To view production information in greater detail you can create a production information tab and associate it with the production information object.

Navigate to Tabs.
Select New Tab.
Enter Production Information as the name for the tab.
Select Object as the tab type.
Select Production Information as the object type.
Configure the tab location. 
Click Save.
Navigate to the Production Information tab to view information about your production set.

The following fields are stored on the production information object and can be viewed on the production information tab:


Artifact id
Begin attachment
Begin bates
Data source
Document
Document id
Edit
End attachment
End bates
Has redactions
Identifier
Image count
Name
Production type
Production set
Security
Sort order
System created by
System created on
System last modified by
System last modified on
With images
With natives
With pdf
With placeholder





