
RelativityOne PDF downloads
This page contains PDF versions of the RelativityOne documentation on this site. The PDFs posted here are updated daily, so we recommend bookmarking the PDFs instead of saving them locally or printing. 
Ultimately, we recommend using the website to get the most up-to-date information. If you have trouble accessing any of these guides, contact us using the form at the bottom of this page. 
Feature guides
Active Learning Guide.pdf

Admin Guide.pdf

aiR for Review Guide.pdf

Analytics Guide.pdf

Case Metrics.pdf

Client Certificate Authentication Guide.pdf

Collect.pdf



Collect - Bloomberg



Collect - Box



Collect - Google Workspace



Collect - Microsoft 365



Collect - Refinitiv Eikon



Collect - Slack



Collect - X1



Data Transfer.pdf

Event Handler Express.pdf

Integration Points.pdf

Searching Guide.pdf

Simple File Upload.pdf

Processing User Guide.pdf

Relativity Data Grid.pdf

Relativity Legal Hold.pdf 

Review Center Guide.pdf

Transcripts application Guide.pdf

User Guide.pdf

Importing and exporting
Import/Export Guide.pdf

Relativity Desktop Client Guide.pdf 
Note: Relativity ended support for and access to the Relativity Desktop Client (RDC) for RelativityOne commercial customers on December 31, 2023. Import/Export is being used for all importing and exporting workflows. For RelativityOne Government customers, beginning March 31, 2024, RDC will only operate in web transfer mode, which will result in significantly slower transfer speeds. It is highly recommended that Government customers begin using Import/Export in RelativityOne as soon as possible to prepare for the deprecation of RDC on June 30, 2024. Starting July 1, 2024, RDC will no longer be operational.  See the Community article RDC Deprecation FAQ for additional information.
Zip files
RelativityOne_PDF_Documentation.zip - This zip file contains the PDFs for RelativityOne available on this website.
Relational Field Icons.zip - Icon set for displaying lists of items grouped by the relational field.
