

Assisted Review
 Relativity's assisted review tools help you categorize your documents and automate the review process while minimizing the time your review team would otherwise spend coding irrelevant documents in your document set.
Review Center gives you the option of using customizable saved searches to serve up documents to reviewers, or using AI-powered queues that predict which documents are most relevant.
Sample Review Center scenario:


You’re a litigation support specialist at a Relativity service provider, and the legal department of a large financial services company reaches out to you. The federal government is demanding that documents belonging to three key custodians be turned over quickly as part of an ongoing investigation.


This company is in a serious time crunch because the government agency’s attorneys have unexpectedly requested documents from a fourth custodian, whom they believe is crucial to the case. This doubles the size of the data they’re required to review and produce, so they turn to you. You turn to Review Center.


You create a saved search that includes the data of all four custodians, then use that as the basis for a prioritized review queue. The queue includes documents that were previously coded as relevant or non-relevant. Review Center’s AI classifier analyzes the previous coding decisions, then serves up documents to reviewers based on its relevance predictions.
 

As the review continues, the AI classifier grows better and better at predicting which documents are relevant. In the end, you find that reviewing less than 15% of the total documents still produced accurate results. The financial services company you’re assisting can now easily comply with the federal government and give them what they need, despite the limited time frame. 



Note: Sample-based learning has been removed from Assisted Review and replaced with Review Center and Active Learning. To view reports for old sample-based learning projects in your workspace, see Report sample-based statistics.







Review Center
Review Center

Creating a Review Center queue

Monitoring a Review Center queue

Reviewing documents using Review Center

Review validation

Review validation statistics

Review Center security permissions



 Active Learning
Active Learning

Creating an Active Learning project



Security permissions



Reviewer access



Choosing an Active Learning review queue



Running Prioritized Review



Running Coverage Review



Best practices for Active Learning review

Monitoring an Active Learning project

Project Validation and Elusion Testing



Project Validation statistics



Reusing trained models

Review statistics

Active Learning performance baselines

 


aiR for Review
aiR for Review

Running aiR for Review

Monitoring aiR for Review jobs

aiR for Review results

aiR for Review security permissions

Note: aiR for Review is currently in limited release. For information about the general release, contact your account representative.




On-demand training
Getting Started with Review Center

Active Learning: No Batches Required

Project Validation Strategies in Active Learning

Getting the Most out of Active Learning: Workflows and Use Cases

Active Learning Ask the Expert: Expanding your Options with Family-Based Review

Your Active Learning Questions Answered



Knowledge base articles
Review Center compared to Active Learning

Review Center - Multiple queues powered by the same classifier

How to control what fields appear on the Documents card in the Review Center Viewer

Using Review Center for Batching

Workflows for Applying aiR for Review

aiR for Review example project

aiR for Review Prompt Writing Best Practices



White papers
A Focus on Security and Privacy in Relativity’s Approach to Generative AI

Active Learning in Technology-Assisted Review

Understanding the Components of Assisted Review and the Workflow That Ties Them Together





