
Installing Collect
You can install Collect in a workspace by using the functionality available through the Application Deployment System (ADS). This system provides you with the option to install Collect by selecting it from the list of existing applications in the Application Library tab or by importing it from an external application file. 
To install Collect, install Collect from the Application Library tab and, if required, enable access for the data source. 
Confirm that you have the appropriate system admin permissions to install an application. See Workspace security.
See these related pages:

Matters

Data sources

Collection


System requirements for Collect
Collect uses the ADS framework, so you install it as an application within a Relativity instance. Consequently, Collect has the same system requirements as RelativityOne. See User software requirements.
Installing Collect
Collect is compatible with RelativityOne.  See Getting started in RelativityOne for requirements. 
For a Collect-only installation, you do not need the following pre-requisities:

Analytics server setup
Database server for processing or native imaging
Worker server for processing or native imaging
Obtaining applications for native imaging and processing

Because Collect uses the ADS framework, you can install through the Relativity Application tab from the library. See Installing Collect from the application library.
Note:  You configure security permissions on Collect just as you would for any other Relativity application. See Workspace security.
Installing Collect from the application library
If Collect is in the application library, you can install it to the current workspace. Confirm that you have the appropriate system admin permissions to install an application. See Collect.
Note: Analytics, Case Dynamics, Collect, Legal Hold, and Processing all share the Entity object. You may be prompted to complete additional steps to unlock and resolve conflicts of the listed applications in order to complete installation. 
Use the following procedure to install Collect from the application library:

Navigate to the workspace where you want to install the application.
Navigate to the Application Admin tab.
Click New Relativity Application to display an application form.
Click the Select from Application Library radio button in the Application Type section.
Click  in the Choose from Application Library field.
Select Collect on the Select Library Application dialog. This dialog only displays applications added to the Application Library. If Collect is not included in the list, see Installing applications.
Click Ok to display the application in the Choose from Application Library field. The application form also displays the following fields:Version—displays the version of the application that you are installing.User-friendly URL—displays a user-friendly version of the application's URL. This field may be blank.Application Artifacts—displays object types and other application components.Map Fields—there are no fields available in Collect for mapping.
Click Import to install Collect into the workspace.
Review the import status of the application. Verify that the install was successful or resolve errors. See Viewing import status and Troubleshooting application installation errors.

Permissions to run Collect
The following security permissions are required to run and complete the collection process:






Object Security
Tab Visibility
Other Settings






Collection – View, Edit, Add
Collection Detail Custodian – View, Edit, Add
Collection Detail Custodian Target – View, Edit, Add 
Collection Detail Custodian Target Result – View, Edit, Add
Collection Detail Request – View, Edit, Add
Collection Detail Source Instance – View, Edit, Add
Collection Detail Source Type – View, Edit, Add
Collection Detail Summary – View, Edit, Add
Collection Matter – View, Edit, Add
Collection Source Instance – View, Edit, Add 
Collection Source Instance Parameter – View, Edit, Add 
Collection Source Type – View, Edit, Add 
Collection Source Type Parameter Type – View, Edit, Add
Collection Source Type Criteria – View, Edit, Add 
Custodian Target – View, Edit, Add
Entity – View, Edit, Add
Custom – View, Edit, Add





Entities

Collect

Matters
Custodian Targets
Collections
Status Summary
Target Status
Collection Admin
Monitor






None





