

Transcripts application
The Transcripts application gives users the ability to upload, review, code, and annotate transcript files in Relativity.
Transcripts application topics
For information about working with the Transcripts application, see the following topics:





Topic
Description




Installing the Transcripts application


The Transcripts application must be installed in each workspace where you want to use the application. This topic includes:

 Compatibility matrix
Installation institutions
Security permissions




Uploading transcripts


When uploading transcripts, Relativity automatically creates folders named after the Deponent Name field. Transcripts are stored in these folders, along with any corresponding attachments. This topic includes:

Uploading transcripts with Simple File Upload
Mass importing transcripts with the Relativity Desktop Client
Editing the Transcripts Import Layout




Supported file types for the Transcripts application

 This topic covers the load file requirements for each supported file type. 


Annotating transcripts


When you open a transcript in the Viewer, you can add notes, designations, exhibits, and URLs to transcripts. This topic includes:

Adding notes, designations, exhibits, and URLs
Uploading a CSV file containing designations
Working with Case Dynamics 




Transcript video clips


This topic covers how to create, save, merge, and export video clips. 



Copying text from a transcript

This topic covers copying transcript text with and without page:line numbers. 


Word Index

The Word Index lists out all the different terms that are found in the transcript. This topic covers how to use the Word Index.


Transcript reports


You can export the different annotations and items that have been linked to transcript(s). This topic includes:

Annotations Digest
Key Terms




Printing transcripts 

This topic covers how to print transcripts from the Viewer. 


Transcripts tab

The Transcripts tab contains individual tabs with views for Notes, Exhibits, URLs, Comments, Designations, and Designation types. This topic defines the fields on each tab. 



